---
layout: post
title: English
---

It's interesting why certain languages are perceived as "pretty" and others are not. And of course, this judgement is mostly superficial, based on the sounds of the language and how we perceive the group who is associated with it.

I think that our judgment of languages in this manner is mostly a social construct. There's a reason Western European languages are seen as "pretty". And I think that reason is simply because they ruled the world up until quite recently.

But I think if one were to poll people around the world on what are the most beautiful languages, there would naturally be many answers. However, probably at the top would be some romance languages like French/Italian. No one talks about the beauty of English though.

You see beauty is a description that we give to things that we love, that we look up to. I think this is most obvious in smells, how in certain cultures in the world, [this smell](http://fortune.com/2015/03/13/oud-scent/) is considered one of the most beautiful scents, when in other it smells like dirt.

And that's why, for me, English is the most beautiful language in the world. Not because of how it sounds or its' characteristics, but because I think part of the beauty of a language are the people that speak it. And knowing English has enabled me to meet a lot of people that I wouldn't have been able to communicate with otherwise and that makes me really thankful to have learnt English and makes it a very beautiful language in my eyes.

p.s another thing that I appreciate about English is the lack of accents in the alphabet, it's so nice not to worry about accents :)
extra p.s I really appreciate that English has a minimal use of prefixes and suffixes, they're such a pain to use!
