---
layout: post
title: Poor documentation
---

As a Computer Science student, I have to use a lot of different tools and technologies for a relatively short period of time. Then move on, and use a new set of tools and technologies (which are usually new, at least in my case). Oftentimes, I would have to juggle multiple development environments at the same time. Which I don't think is that strange of a concept, especially in the industry. However, the problem is that as a student, my main goal is to finish the assignment as well as I can before the deadline.

Now, with the pressure of a deadline, and having to utilize a new set tools (sometimes a new paradigm of thinking and problem solving). I just don't find the time to learn the tools properly before submitting (shipping) the project. Usually a CS course will have anywhere between 3-7 projects per semester. As the course advances and covers new topics, there usually follows a project to concretize the abstract concepts in the students' minds by having them actually program these concepts. Which means that by each incremental project, the student would have to use the majority of the time (at least in my case) to learn the new concept and how to develop it before getting to the other parts of the project. As the deadline approaches, I often find myself having to back and rewrite some of the earlier code I've written, either because it's incompatible the new design method or because there's a better way to do it. This method of development is what I expect from a university setting, getting the student comfortable enough with a technology or a tool and learning how to troubleshoot and problem solve for them and then moving on to a new topic. After all, in a 4 year education there just isn't enough time to cover any certain topic too deeply, besides a few fundamentals of course.

All the above is not the problem that I want to address, rather they are cause reasons for the problem. Which is that when a developer (or a student) knows a technology just barely enough to get it working without breaking. They won't be able to write good documentation, plain and simple. I have always had that problem, not just with programming, but most other aspects of my life, I think it's an extension of the romanticization that I have to the "easy-going" or the not caring outlook on life. If I did it once, I can surely do it again I would always tell myself. However, it's not as simple as doing it again, working environments change, OS's change, libraries become deprecated.

Back to poor documentation, I think when a developer uses a technology for the first time (or first few times), they're barely getting their head around it and find many little quirks and intricacies that they wouldn't understand how they work, yet they understand what the expected output is and use them so.
