---
layout: post
title: "They"
---
The pronoun "they" and it's derivatives are used to refer to people who do not identify with the gender binary. While I think that this usage is an important one to have in inclusive societies, at the same from a linguistic point, it introduces more ambiguity to English. A language that in my opinion is not intuitively clear.

I can see two main cases of using the pronoun that introduce problems. The first case, when using the pronoun by itself i.e "I was with them". The second case is the pronoun is coupled with a verb (will only address present conjugations in this post) i.e "they eat". Both of these uses make it impossible to distinguish between the singular and plural of the 3rd person without using more wordage.

In an ironic way, the second case genders English in a way that I don't think has existed in the language before. This gendering is done by changing the verb conjugation based on the gender (or lack thereof) of the person i.e "he/she/it is" but "they are", thus the verb "to be" changes conjugations based on whether the person referred to is gender binary or not. Again, I think this makes the language more ambiguous.

So, I suggest two solutions.

The first one, is instead of using the pronoun "they" and it's derivatives to refer to non gender binary people, an alternative is using the pronoun "it". I think that this is a good solution linguistically, since the pronoun "it" is already used to refer to a 3rd person singular object. And while this solutions addresses both of the cases outlined above, I don't like this approach, since I feel like "it" is usually reserved for non-humans in English.

The second option, is to add the pronoun "they" to the list of the 3rd person singular pronouns making them "he/she/it/they" i.e we would say "they is" and "they eats" instead of "they are" and "they eat" for addressing 3rd person non gender binary. While I like this solution since it does not carry the dehumanizing connotation that the pervious solution has. It does not solve both cases, i.e "i am talking with them" is still not clear who is meant by them.

Closing this thought, I think that as people in general (English speakers specifically in this case) move forward with societal changes, it is important for us to develop standardizing body that regulate languages, while being able to promptly adapt to new changes. So we can both be respectful to people and address then the way they want to be addressed while still keeping languages as clear as possible. And especially English, because of it's role in connecting the world.

Note: there is another solution which is to add a non gendered pronoun, but I don't that is feasible in a language like English.
